Title: HDTV Coverage
Menu: SideJ

{!notice.md!}

This predicted coverage map shows generally where the WLT translator
signal will be usable.  The red circle is centered on Glenada Hill
where our communications tower is located.

![Coverage Map]({static}/images/coverage_map.png)

Note that this is "predicted" coverage, not "measured" It is
calculated mathematically using data about the antenna design, antenna
height, transmitter output power, and topographic features from 2 to
10 miles away from the transmitter location.

Because the calculations don't take into account terrestrial
obstructions beyond 10 miles from the transmitter, they don't
recognize distant obstacles, such as, for example, Cape Perpetua being
a small impediment to our signals getting into Yachats. Even nearby
locations can be much different from the predicted coverage. The
coverage map clearly indicates that our transmitters should reach
Mapleton, 13 miles inland from Florence, but because of shielding
terrain, there is no signal there. Two of the Eugene TV stations
operate separate translator facilities to provide service to that
community.

On the other hand, the signal strength out to sea is probably
understated. Without hills and trees, it's likely possible to receive
a great picture all the way to the horizon and a bit beyond.

Locations such as Siltcoos Lake, and other hilly environs will
experience hit-or-miss propagation, depending on which side of a hill
you might be on, and the elevation of your site.

In the future, we hope to update this map with an improved version
that takes into account more accurate terrain modeling but it still
will not account for very localized conditions (such as the majestic
trees that have grown tall enough to block your antenna's clear view
of our tower).  You'll be able to get the most accurate information
about reception by trying it out and we hope that the information on
our [HDTV How-To]({filename}HowTo.md) and [HDTV
Antennas]({filename}Antennas.md) pages will be helpful in your
efforts.

The tools on [TV Fool](https://www.tvfool.com/) may be useful for
getting information specific to your exact location.
