Title: HDTV Repack
Status: Hidden

{!notice.md!}

Due to sale of spectrum by the FCC, West Lane Translator, Inc. was
required to change three of its channels on December 7th, 2017. The
translators for KVAL, KMTR and KLSR were moved from channel 40, 43 and
51 respectively, to channel 24, 26 and 28. When this occurred, viewers
"lost" these stations and needed to re-scan their televisions to
"find" the new channels.

After this, nothing would look any different to you, the viewer. The
three network stations once again appeared on the same channel
selections as before (channels 13, 16, and 34). Much of this has to do
with digital smoke and electronic mirrors, but that's alright, you
don't have to understand it fully, few of us here really do either...

If you have an inquisitive mind, a fast internet connection and some
spare time, you can gain a better understanding of why it was
necessary to change three of our channels by reading the rather
complete dissertation on
[Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spectrum_reallocation).

In the Florence area, the spectrum was purchased at auction by
T-Mobile. This has resulted in WLT, as well as one other TV translator
(channel 48), engaging in this channel move. In order to complete the
engineering studies and apply for new channel frequencies, we were
required to cooperate with other broadcasters in Lane county to find
interference-free schemes of channel assignment. It was quite a feat,
and much gratitude is due to those who figured out this difficult
frequency allotment puzzle.

WLT extends sincere appreciation to board and technical committee
member Dennis Hunt and to OPB engineer Jon Kenneke for their efforts
to quickly and completely make the channel change and recalibrate the
necessary transmission equipment.
