Title: History
Status: Hidden
Menu: TopA

{!notice.md!}

Free, over-the-air television in the Florence area began back in 1959
with a demonstration of the capabilities of translator technology,
described in this clipping from *The Siuslaw Oar*:

----

<div markdown style="overflow:auto;">

<div markdown style="float:left;">

[![The Siuslaw Oar, June 12,
1959]({static}/images/The-Oar.jpg)<br>Click for PDF
copy]({static}/pdfs/The_Oar.pdf)

</div>

**Favor 2-Channel TV Reception**

Two television translators will be installed here as soon as
approximately $4500 more is raised to add to the $9700 in the fund
June 9. This is the decision of subscribers in West Lane Translator
Corp. by show of hands at Tuesday evening's meeting at Siuslaw junior
high school.

The meeting had been called to demonstrate television reception over a
single channel, a translator having been temporarily installed on
Canary Hill. A clear, steady picture showed on the screen, with
necessary antenna and converter being in view on the auditorium stage
with the set.

Paul Kafoury, television man from Newport, explained technical
features of the proposed system and answered questions from the
audience. Get the best equipment and installation service he advised,
pointing out situations in which poor reception might result. Some
locations may cause technical difficulties, only a fair trial can
determine whether these cannot be overcome, he said. A few places in
the area appear to be unsuitable for good reception. The translators
will provide signals for color TV.

Up to the meeting time, $9300 was raised, with new subscribers during
the evening boosting the total to $9700.

Art Wharfield explained the work of the committee who have been
directing the campaign to bring topnotch television reception to the
coastal region of western Lane county.

Several persons volunteered to assist in the fund raising campaign
which has as its immediate goal a sum to reach $14,196 necessary for
two channels.

Bob Wick gave data on financing for the project. For one channel
reception, $8675 is estimated necessary, two channel, $14,196 and
three channel, $19,717. Each transmitter costs $3100 (each channel
requires one); building to house the equipment, $750; a road; $1000
and maintenance; $1500.

Close to 300 persons attended.

</div>

----

More recently, the switch from analog to digital TV transmission was
another big step forward for our organization, featured in this article
in [The Siuslaw News](https://thesiuslawnews.com/):

----

<div markdown style="overflow:auto;">

<div markdown style="float:right;">

[![The Siuslaw News, January 16,
2010]({static}/images/seeing-digital.jpg)<br>Click for PDF
copy]({static}/pdfs/Siuslaw_News_01-16-2010.pdf)

</div>

**Seeing digital**

West Lane Translator converts free local TV channels to digital  
BY RYAN CRONK  
Siuslaw News  

JANUARY 16, 2010

Florence television viewers this week were greeted to new digital
channels broadcasted by West Lane Translator (WLT), which successfully
converted its free "over-the-air" TV services after a month of delays.

As of Wednesday, the local nonprofit organization's four licensed
stations --- ABC, CBS, NBC and FOX --- and OPB transitioned from
analog to digital signals, improving audio and visual quality for
viewers.

"The transition to digital for this area might not have happened if we
had sat back," said Bill Durst, WLT board member. "In some
communities, broadcasters lacking local support are considering
turning off the old signal rather than fund digital.  Those
communities risk going without free television."

Durst said the volunteer WLT board worked hard to obtain a local
bridge loan, federal grant and fall-back positions with broadcasters.

"Our mission is promotion of free broadcasting for the community ---
in a tradition of 50 years of effort --- and we believe we will
accomplish this," he added.

"We also want to thank new community member supporters who have
voluntarily sent in annual or life-time dues."

Last weekend, Oregon Reception Engineering mounted 1,000 pounds of new
antenna equipment to the top of WLT's 240-foot tower located south of
Florence. The low-wind weather provided an opportunity for engineering
crews to make the strenuous lift.

Stormy conditions last month prevented installation of the 12-panel
antenna system, which was essential for the digital switch.

"The delays were unfortunate," Durst said, "We had to take some risk
here, both in obtaining this tower and in deciding to buy equipment."

WLT's digital conversion culminates two years of planning and nearly
$500,000 in modern equipment and tower.

New digital signals bring new changes to the local channel
lineup. After programming a tuner scan through the television or
digital converter box, each of the four TV stations and OPB will show
up as the following: 9.1 (ABC), 9.2 (Local News/Weather), 13.1 (CBS),
13.2 (This), 16.1 (NBC), 16.2 (CW), 29.1 (OPB HD), 29.2 (OPB SD), 29.3
(OPB PLUS), 29.4 (OPB FM), 34.1 (FOX), 34.2 (MY TV).

WLT will continue to broadcast channels 52, 54, 56, 58 and 60 in
analog until the end of January.  Once these signals are turned off,
however, older non-digital TV sets will require a converter box to get
reception.

"We expect the best digital signal will come from using an external
UHF antenna. The next best signal will come from using the old indoor
rabbit-ear loop antenna," said Dennis Hunt, WLT board member and TV
engineer.  "Non-digital sets will require the converter box. There is
no need to buy an amplified antenna system."

For more information, visit WLT's website
[www.westlanetv.org](https://westlanetv.org).

</div>

----

Both articles on this page appear courtesy of [The Siuslaw
News](https://thesiuslawnews.com/).
